raspell

An interface binding for the Aspell spelling checker.

== Deprecated

This gem is unmaintained. Please use ffi-aspell[https://github.com/YorickPeterse/ffi-aspell] instead.

== License

Copyright 2007-2012 Cloudburst, LLC. Licensed under the GPL 2.0. See included LICENSE file. Portions copyright 2005 Matthias Veit, Biro Eszter and used with permission.  

== Requirements

Raspell requires Aspell version 0.6 (http://www.aspell.net) and at least one Aspell dictionary. 

MacPorts:
  port install aspell aspell-dict-en

Homebrew:
  brew install aspell --lang=en

Ubuntu: 
  apt-get install aspell libaspell-dev aspell-en
  
== Installation

Mac:
  gem install raspell -- --with-opt-dir=/opt/local
  
Ubuntu:
  gem install raspell
  
== Usage

Aspell lets you <tt>check</tt> words and <tt>suggest</tt> corrections. For example:
   
  require 'rubygems'
  require 'raspell'
  
  speller = Aspell.new("en_US")
  speller.suggestion_mode = Aspell::NORMAL
  
  string = "my haert wil go on"
  
  string.gsub(/[\w\']+/) do |word| 
    if !speller.check(word) 
      # word is wrong
      puts "Possible correction for #{word}:"
      puts speller.suggest(word).first
    end
  end

This outputs:

  Possible correction for haert:
  heart
  Possible correction for wil:
  Will

Note that <tt>suggest</tt> returns an array of suggestions even for words that are correctly spelled.

== Options

The most useful options are <tt>suggestion_mode</tt>, and the passthrough option <tt>ignore_case</tt>. Passthrough options have to be set as so:

  speller.set_option("ignore-case", "true")

See http://aspell.net/man-html/The-Options.html for a list of the passthrough options. 

== Reporting problems

The support forum is here[http://rubyforge.org/forum/forum.php?forum_id=13988].

Patches and contributions are very welcome. Please note that contributors are required to assign copyright for their additions to Cloudburst, LLC.

== Futher resources

* http://blog.evanweaver.com/articles/2007/03/10/add-gud-spelning-to-ur-railz-app-or-wharever

